docs/en/inference/vl_pipeline.md, before:

# VLM Offline Inference Pipeline

LMDeploy abstracts the complex inference process of multi-modal Vision-Language Models (VLM) into an easy-to-use pipeline, similar to the Large Language Model (LLM) inference [pipeline](./pipeline.md).

Currently, it supports the following models.

- [Qwen-VL-Chat](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen-VL-Chat)
- LLaVA series: [v1.5](https://huggingface.co/collections/liuhaotian/llava-15-653aac15d994e992e2677a7e), [v1.6](https://huggingface.co/collections/liuhaotian/llava-16-65b9e40155f60fd046a5ccf2)
- [Yi-VL](https://huggingface.co/01-ai/Yi-VL-6B)

We genuinely invite the community to contribute new VLM support to LMDeploy. Your involvement is truly appreciated.

This article showcases the VLM pipeline using the [liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b](https://huggingface.co/liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b) model as a case study.
You'll learn about the simplest ways to leverage the pipeline and how to gradually unlock more advanced features by adjusting engine parameters and generation arguments, such as tensor parallelism, context window sizing, random sampling, and chat template customization.
Moreover, we will provide practical inference examples tailored to scenarios with multiple images, batch prompts etc.

## A 'Hello, world' example

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image

pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b')

image = load_image('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/tests/data/tiger.jpeg')
response = pipe(('describe this image', image))
print(response)
```

If `ImportError` occurs while executing this case, please install the required dependency packages as prompted.

In the above example, the inference prompt is a tuple structure consisting of (prompt, image). Besides this structure, the pipeline also supports prompts in the OpenAI format:

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline

pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b')

prompts = [
    {
        'role': 'user',
        'content': [
            {'type': 'text', 'text': 'describe this image'},
            {'type': 'image_url', 'image_url': {'url': 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/tests/data/tiger.jpeg'}}
        ]
    }
]
response = pipe(prompts)
print(response)
```

### Set tensor parallelism

Tensor paramllelism can be activated by setting the engine parameter `tp`

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline, TurbomindEngineConfig
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image

pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b',
                backend_config=TurbomindEngineConfig(tp=2))

image = load_image('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/tests/data/tiger.jpeg')
response = pipe(('describe this image', image))
print(response)
```

### Set context window size

When creating the pipeline, you can customize the size of the context window by setting the engine parameter `session_len`.

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline, TurbomindEngineConfig
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image

pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b',
                backend_config=TurbomindEngineConfig(session_len=8192))

image = load_image('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/tests/data/tiger.jpeg')
response = pipe(('describe this image', image))
print(response)
```

### Set sampling parameters

You can change the default sampling parameters of pipeline by passing `GenerationConfig`

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline, GenerationConfig, TurbomindEngineConfig
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image

pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b',
                backend_config=TurbomindEngineConfig(tp=2, session_len=8192))
gen_config = GenerationConfig(top_k=40, top_p=0.8, temperature=0.6)
image = load_image('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/tests/data/tiger.jpeg')
response = pipe(('describe this image', image), gen_config=gen_config)
print(response)
```

### Set chat template

While performing inference, LMDeploy identifies an appropriate chat template from its builtin collection based on the model path and subsequently applies this template to the input prompts. However, when a chat template cannot be told from its model path, users have to specify it. For example, [liuhaotian/llava-v1.5-7b](https://huggingface.co/liuhaotian/llava-v1.5-7b) employs the 'vicuna' chat template, but the name 'vicuna' cannot be ascertained from the model's path. We can specify it by setting 'vicuna' to `ChatTemplateConfig` as follows:

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline, ChatTemplateConfig
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image
pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.5-7b',
                chat_template_config=ChatTemplateConfig(model_name='vicuna'))

image = load_image('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/tests/data/tiger.jpeg')
response = pipe(('describe this image', image))
print(response)
```

For more information about customizing a chat template, please refer to [this](../advance/chat_template.md) guide

## Multi-images inference

When dealing with multiple images, you can put them all in one list. Keep in mind that multiple images will lead to a higher number of input tokens, and as a result, the size of the [context window](#set-context-window-size) typically needs to be increased.

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline, TurbomindEngineConfig
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image

pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b',
                backend_config=TurbomindEngineConfig(session_len=8192))

image_urls=[
    'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/demo/resources/human-pose.jpg',
    'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/demo/resources/det.jpg'
]

images = [load_image(img_url) for img_url in image_urls]
response = pipe(('describe these images', images))
print(response)
```

## Batch prompts inference

Conducting inference with batch prompts is quite straightforward; just place them within a list structure:

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline, TurbomindEngineConfig
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image

pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b',
                backend_config=TurbomindEngineConfig(session_len=8192))

image_urls=[
    "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/demo/resources/human-pose.jpg",
    "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/demo/resources/det.jpg"
]
prompts = [('describe this image', load_image(img_url)) for img_url in image_urls]
response = pipe(prompts)
print(response)
```

## Multi-turn conversation

There are two ways to do the multi-turn conversations with the pipeline. One is to construct messages according to the format of OpenAI and use above introduced method, the other is to use the `pipeline.chat` interface.

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline, TurbomindEngineConfig, GenerationConfig
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image

pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b',
                backend_config=TurbomindEngineConfig(session_len=8192))

image = load_image('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/demo/resources/human-pose.jpg')
gen_config = GenerationConfig(top_k=40, top_p=0.8, temperature=0.8)
sess = pipe.chat(('describe this image', image), gen_config=gen_config)
print(sess.response.text)
sess = pipe.chat('What is the woman doing?', session=sess, gen_config=gen_config)
print(sess.response.text)
```

Commit message:

Balance vision model weights on multi gpus (#1591)
* remove cuda_ctx as turbomind will set device itself

* balanced vision model

* fix mini_gemeni

* fix hanging issue

* update docs & cli

* fix internvl template

* remove unused args

* update xcomposer2

* fix yi-vl

* fix comments

* update requirements

* fix lint

docs/en/inference/vl_pipeline.md, after:

# VLM Offline Inference Pipeline

LMDeploy abstracts the complex inference process of multi-modal Vision-Language Models (VLM) into an easy-to-use pipeline, similar to the Large Language Model (LLM) inference [pipeline](./pipeline.md).

Currently, it supports the following models.

- [Qwen-VL-Chat](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen-VL-Chat)
- LLaVA series: [v1.5](https://huggingface.co/collections/liuhaotian/llava-15-653aac15d994e992e2677a7e), [v1.6](https://huggingface.co/collections/liuhaotian/llava-16-65b9e40155f60fd046a5ccf2)
- [Yi-VL](https://huggingface.co/01-ai/Yi-VL-6B)

We genuinely invite the community to contribute new VLM support to LMDeploy. Your involvement is truly appreciated.

This article showcases the VLM pipeline using the [liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b](https://huggingface.co/liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b) model as a case study.
You'll learn about the simplest ways to leverage the pipeline and how to gradually unlock more advanced features by adjusting engine parameters and generation arguments, such as tensor parallelism, context window sizing, random sampling, and chat template customization.
Moreover, we will provide practical inference examples tailored to scenarios with multiple images, batch prompts etc.

## A 'Hello, world' example

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image

pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b')

image = load_image('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/tests/data/tiger.jpeg')
response = pipe(('describe this image', image))
print(response)
```

If `ImportError` occurs while executing this case, please install the required dependency packages as prompted.

In the above example, the inference prompt is a tuple structure consisting of (prompt, image). Besides this structure, the pipeline also supports prompts in the OpenAI format:

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline

pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b')

prompts = [
    {
        'role': 'user',
        'content': [
            {'type': 'text', 'text': 'describe this image'},
            {'type': 'image_url', 'image_url': {'url': 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/tests/data/tiger.jpeg'}}
        ]
    }
]
response = pipe(prompts)
print(response)
```

### Set tensor parallelism

Tensor paramllelism can be activated by setting the engine parameter `tp`

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline, TurbomindEngineConfig
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image

pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b',
                backend_config=TurbomindEngineConfig(tp=2))

image = load_image('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/tests/data/tiger.jpeg')
response = pipe(('describe this image', image))
print(response)
```

### Set context window size

When creating the pipeline, you can customize the size of the context window by setting the engine parameter `session_len`.

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline, TurbomindEngineConfig
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image

pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b',
                backend_config=TurbomindEngineConfig(session_len=8192))

image = load_image('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/tests/data/tiger.jpeg')
response = pipe(('describe this image', image))
print(response)
```

### Set sampling parameters

You can change the default sampling parameters of pipeline by passing `GenerationConfig`

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline, GenerationConfig, TurbomindEngineConfig
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image

pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b',
                backend_config=TurbomindEngineConfig(tp=2, session_len=8192))
gen_config = GenerationConfig(top_k=40, top_p=0.8, temperature=0.6)
image = load_image('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/tests/data/tiger.jpeg')
response = pipe(('describe this image', image), gen_config=gen_config)
print(response)
```

### Set chat template

While performing inference, LMDeploy identifies an appropriate chat template from its builtin collection based on the model path and subsequently applies this template to the input prompts. However, when a chat template cannot be told from its model path, users have to specify it. For example, [liuhaotian/llava-v1.5-7b](https://huggingface.co/liuhaotian/llava-v1.5-7b) employs the 'vicuna' chat template, but the name 'vicuna' cannot be ascertained from the model's path. We can specify it by setting 'vicuna' to `ChatTemplateConfig` as follows:

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline, ChatTemplateConfig
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image
pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.5-7b',
                chat_template_config=ChatTemplateConfig(model_name='vicuna'))

image = load_image('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/tests/data/tiger.jpeg')
response = pipe(('describe this image', image))
print(response)
```

For more information about customizing a chat template, please refer to [this](../advance/chat_template.md) guide

### Setting vision model parameters

The default parameters of the visual model can be modified by setting `VisonConfig`.

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline, VisonConfig
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image
vision_config=VisonConfig(max_batch_size=16)
pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.5-7b', vision_config=vision_config)
image = load_image('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/tests/data/tiger.jpeg')
response = pipe(('describe this image', image))
print(response)
```

## Multi-images inference

When dealing with multiple images, you can put them all in one list. Keep in mind that multiple images will lead to a higher number of input tokens, and as a result, the size of the [context window](#set-context-window-size) typically needs to be increased.

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline, TurbomindEngineConfig
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image

pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b',
                backend_config=TurbomindEngineConfig(session_len=8192))

image_urls=[
    'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/demo/resources/human-pose.jpg',
    'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/demo/resources/det.jpg'
]

images = [load_image(img_url) for img_url in image_urls]
response = pipe(('describe these images', images))
print(response)
```

## Batch prompts inference

Conducting inference with batch prompts is quite straightforward; just place them within a list structure:

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline, TurbomindEngineConfig
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image

pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b',
                backend_config=TurbomindEngineConfig(session_len=8192))

image_urls=[
    "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/demo/resources/human-pose.jpg",
    "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/demo/resources/det.jpg"
]
prompts = [('describe this image', load_image(img_url)) for img_url in image_urls]
response = pipe(prompts)
print(response)
```

## Multi-turn conversation

There are two ways to do the multi-turn conversations with the pipeline. One is to construct messages according to the format of OpenAI and use above introduced method, the other is to use the `pipeline.chat` interface.

```python
from lmdeploy import pipeline, TurbomindEngineConfig, GenerationConfig
from lmdeploy.vl import load_image

pipe = pipeline('liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b',
                backend_config=TurbomindEngineConfig(session_len=8192))

image = load_image('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy/main/demo/resources/human-pose.jpg')
gen_config = GenerationConfig(top_k=40, top_p=0.8, temperature=0.8)
sess = pipe.chat(('describe this image', image), gen_config=gen_config)
print(sess.response.text)
sess = pipe.chat('What is the woman doing?', session=sess, gen_config=gen_config)
print(sess.response.text)
```
