README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src="resources/lmdeploy-logo.png" width="450"/>

English | [简体中文](README_zh-CN.md)

</div>

<p align="center">
    👋 join us on <a href="https://twitter.com/intern_lm" target="_blank">Twitter</a>, <a href="https://discord.gg/xa29JuW87d" target="_blank">Discord</a> and <a href="https://r.vansin.top/?r=internwx" target="_blank">WeChat</a>
</p>

______________________________________________________________________

## News 🎉

- \[2023/07\] TurboMind supports Llama-2 70B with GQA.
- \[2023/07\] TurboMind supports Llama-2 7B/13B.
- \[2023/07\] TurboMind supports tensor-parallel inference of InternLM.

______________________________________________________________________

## Introduction

LMDeploy is a toolkit for compressing, deploying, and serving LLM, developed by the [MMRazor](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmrazor) and [MMDeploy](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy) teams. It has the following core features:

- **Efficient Inference Engine (TurboMind)**: Based on [FasterTransformer](https://github.com/NVIDIA/FasterTransformer), we have implemented an efficient inference engine - TurboMind, which supports the inference of LLaMA and its variant models on NVIDIA GPUs.

- **Interactive Inference Mode**: By caching the k/v of attention during multi-round dialogue processes, it remembers dialogue history, thus avoiding repetitive processing of historical sessions.

- **Multi-GPU Model Deployment and Quantization**: We provide comprehensive model deployment and quantification support, and have been validated at different scales.

- **Persistent Batch Inference**: Further optimization of model execution efficiency.

![PersistentBatchInference](https://github.com/InternLM/lmdeploy/assets/67539920/e3876167-0671-44fc-ac52-5a0f9382493e)

## Performance

**Case I**: output token throughput with fixed input token and output token number (1, 2048)

**Case II**: request throughput with real conversation data

Test Setting: LLaMA-7B, NVIDIA A100(80G)

The output token throughput of TurboMind exceeds 2000 tokens/s, which is about 5% - 15% higher than DeepSpeed overall and outperforms huggingface transformers by up to 2.3x.
And the request throughput of TurboMind is 30% higher than vLLM.

![benchmark](https://github.com/InternLM/lmdeploy/assets/4560679/7775c518-608e-4e5b-be73-7645a444e774)

## Quick Start

### Installation

Below are quick steps for installation:

```shell
conda create -n lmdeploy python=3.10 -y
conda activate lmdeploy
pip install lmdeploy
```

### Deploy InternLM

#### Get InternLM model

```shell
# 1. Download InternLM model

# Make sure you have git-lfs installed (https://git-lfs.com)
git lfs install
git clone https://huggingface.co/internlm/internlm-chat-7b /path/to/internlm-chat-7b

# if you want to clone without large files – just their pointers
# prepend your git clone with the following env var:
GIT_LFS_SKIP_SMUDGE=1

# 2. Convert InternLM model to turbomind's format, which will be in "./workspace" by default
python3 -m lmdeploy.serve.turbomind.deploy internlm-chat-7b /path/to/internlm-chat-7b

```

#### Inference by TurboMind

```shell
python -m lmdeploy.turbomind.chat ./workspace
```

```{note}
When inferring with FP16 precision, the InternLM-7B model requires at least 15.7G of GPU memory overhead on TurboMind. It is recommended to use NVIDIA cards such as 3090, V100, A100, etc.
Disable GPU ECC can free up 10% memory, try `sudo nvidia-smi --ecc-config=0` and reboot system.
```

#### Serving

Launch inference server by:

```shell
bash workspace/service_docker_up.sh
```

Then, you can communicate with the inference server by command line,

```shell
python3 -m lmdeploy.serve.client {server_ip_addresss}:33337
```

or webui,

```shell
python3 -m lmdeploy.app {server_ip_addresss}:33337
```

![](https://github.com/InternLM/lmdeploy/assets/67539920/08d1e6f2-3767-44d5-8654-c85767cec2ab)

For the deployment of other supported models, such as LLaMA, LLaMA-2, vicuna and so on, you can find the guide from [here](docs/en/serving.md)

### Inference with PyTorch

You have to install deepspeed first before running with PyTorch.

```
pip install deepspeed
```

#### Single GPU

```shell
python3 -m lmdeploy.pytorch.chat $NAME_OR_PATH_TO_HF_MODEL \
    --max_new_tokens 64 \
    --temperture 0.8 \
    --top_p 0.95 \
    --seed 0
```

#### Tensor Parallel with DeepSpeed

```shell
deepspeed --module --num_gpus 2 lmdeploy.pytorch.chat \
    $NAME_OR_PATH_TO_HF_MODEL \
    --max_new_tokens 64 \
    --temperture 0.8 \
    --top_p 0.95 \
    --seed 0
```

## Quantization

In fp16 mode, kv_cache int8 quantization can be enabled, and a single card can serve more users.
First execute the quantization script, and the quantization parameters are stored in the `workspace/triton_models/weights` transformed by `deploy.py`.

```
python3 -m lmdeploy.lite.apis.kv_qparams \
  --model $HF_MODEL \
  --output_dir $DEPLOY_WEIGHT_DIR \
  --symmetry True \   # Whether to use symmetric or asymmetric quantization.
  --offload  False \  # Whether to offload some modules to CPU to save GPU memory.
  --num_tp 1 \   # The number of GPUs used for tensor parallelism
```

Then adjust `workspace/triton_models/weights/config.ini`

- `use_context_fmha` changed to 0, means off
- `quant_policy` is set to 4. This parameter defaults to 0, which means it is not enabled

Here is [quantization test results](./docs/en/quantization.md).

## Contributing

We appreciate all contributions to LMDeploy. Please refer to [CONTRIBUTING.md](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for the contributing guideline.

## Acknowledgement

- [FasterTransformer](https://github.com/NVIDIA/FasterTransformer)

## License

This project is released under the [Apache 2.0 license](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Support Runtime tensor parallelism (#158)
* works on interlm and vicuna

* support GQA

* remove comment

* update readme, add logger, default tp=1

* remove log

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="resources/lmdeploy-logo.png" width="450"/>

English | [简体中文](README_zh-CN.md)

</div>

<p align="center">
    👋 join us on <a href="https://twitter.com/intern_lm" target="_blank">Twitter</a>, <a href="https://discord.gg/xa29JuW87d" target="_blank">Discord</a> and <a href="https://r.vansin.top/?r=internwx" target="_blank">WeChat</a>
</p>

______________________________________________________________________

## News 🎉

- \[2023/07\] TurboMind supports Llama-2 70B with GQA.
- \[2023/07\] TurboMind supports Llama-2 7B/13B.
- \[2023/07\] TurboMind supports tensor-parallel inference of InternLM.

______________________________________________________________________

## Introduction

LMDeploy is a toolkit for compressing, deploying, and serving LLM, developed by the [MMRazor](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmrazor) and [MMDeploy](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy) teams. It has the following core features:

- **Efficient Inference Engine (TurboMind)**: Based on [FasterTransformer](https://github.com/NVIDIA/FasterTransformer), we have implemented an efficient inference engine - TurboMind, which supports the inference of LLaMA and its variant models on NVIDIA GPUs.

- **Interactive Inference Mode**: By caching the k/v of attention during multi-round dialogue processes, it remembers dialogue history, thus avoiding repetitive processing of historical sessions.

- **Multi-GPU Model Deployment and Quantization**: We provide comprehensive model deployment and quantification support, and have been validated at different scales.

- **Persistent Batch Inference**: Further optimization of model execution efficiency.

![PersistentBatchInference](https://github.com/InternLM/lmdeploy/assets/67539920/e3876167-0671-44fc-ac52-5a0f9382493e)

## Performance

**Case I**: output token throughput with fixed input token and output token number (1, 2048)

**Case II**: request throughput with real conversation data

Test Setting: LLaMA-7B, NVIDIA A100(80G)

The output token throughput of TurboMind exceeds 2000 tokens/s, which is about 5% - 15% higher than DeepSpeed overall and outperforms huggingface transformers by up to 2.3x.
And the request throughput of TurboMind is 30% higher than vLLM.

![benchmark](https://github.com/InternLM/lmdeploy/assets/4560679/7775c518-608e-4e5b-be73-7645a444e774)

## Quick Start

### Installation

Below are quick steps for installation:

```shell
conda create -n lmdeploy python=3.10 -y
conda activate lmdeploy
pip install lmdeploy
```

### Deploy InternLM

#### Get InternLM model

```shell
# 1. Download InternLM model

# Make sure you have git-lfs installed (https://git-lfs.com)
git lfs install
git clone https://huggingface.co/internlm/internlm-chat-7b /path/to/internlm-chat-7b

# if you want to clone without large files – just their pointers
# prepend your git clone with the following env var:
GIT_LFS_SKIP_SMUDGE=1

# 2. Convert InternLM model to turbomind's format, which will be in "./workspace" by default
python3 -m lmdeploy.serve.turbomind.deploy internlm-chat-7b /path/to/internlm-chat-7b

```

#### Inference by TurboMind

```shell
python -m lmdeploy.turbomind.chat ./workspace
```

> **Note**<br />
> When inferring with FP16 precision, the InternLM-7B model requires at least 15.7G of GPU memory overhead on TurboMind. <br />
> It is recommended to use NVIDIA cards such as 3090, V100, A100, etc.
> Disable GPU ECC can free up 10% memory, try `sudo nvidia-smi --ecc-config=0` and reboot system.

> **Note**<br />
> Tensor parallel is available to perform inference on multiple GPUs. Add `--tp=<num_gpu>` on `chat` to enable runtime TP.

#### Serving

Launch inference server by:

```shell
bash workspace/service_docker_up.sh
```

Then, you can communicate with the inference server by command line,

```shell
python3 -m lmdeploy.serve.client {server_ip_addresss}:33337
```

or webui,

```shell
python3 -m lmdeploy.app {server_ip_addresss}:33337
```

![](https://github.com/InternLM/lmdeploy/assets/67539920/08d1e6f2-3767-44d5-8654-c85767cec2ab)

For the deployment of other supported models, such as LLaMA, LLaMA-2, vicuna and so on, you can find the guide from [here](docs/en/serving.md)

### Inference with PyTorch

You have to install deepspeed first before running with PyTorch.

```
pip install deepspeed
```

#### Single GPU

```shell
python3 -m lmdeploy.pytorch.chat $NAME_OR_PATH_TO_HF_MODEL \
    --max_new_tokens 64 \
    --temperture 0.8 \
    --top_p 0.95 \
    --seed 0
```

#### Tensor Parallel with DeepSpeed

```shell
deepspeed --module --num_gpus 2 lmdeploy.pytorch.chat \
    $NAME_OR_PATH_TO_HF_MODEL \
    --max_new_tokens 64 \
    --temperture 0.8 \
    --top_p 0.95 \
    --seed 0
```

## Quantization

In fp16 mode, kv_cache int8 quantization can be enabled, and a single card can serve more users.
First execute the quantization script, and the quantization parameters are stored in the `workspace/triton_models/weights` transformed by `deploy.py`.

```
python3 -m lmdeploy.lite.apis.kv_qparams \
  --model $HF_MODEL \
  --output_dir $DEPLOY_WEIGHT_DIR \
  --symmetry True \   # Whether to use symmetric or asymmetric quantization.
  --offload  False \  # Whether to offload some modules to CPU to save GPU memory.
  --num_tp 1 \   # The number of GPUs used for tensor parallelism
```

Then adjust `workspace/triton_models/weights/config.ini`

- `use_context_fmha` changed to 0, means off
- `quant_policy` is set to 4. This parameter defaults to 0, which means it is not enabled

Here is [quantization test results](./docs/en/quantization.md).

> **Warning**<br />
> runtime Tesnor Parallel for quantilized model is not available. Please setup `--tp` on `deploy` to enable static TP.

## Contributing

We appreciate all contributions to LMDeploy. Please refer to [CONTRIBUTING.md](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for the contributing guideline.

## Acknowledgement

- [FasterTransformer](https://github.com/NVIDIA/FasterTransformer)

## License

This project is released under the [Apache 2.0 license](LICENSE).
